From Hansel minutes.com is Hanselman's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists and Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 45. Recorded live Monday,
January 5th, 2009. Support for Hansel minutes
is provided by tolerant already
controls the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net
developers journal, the world's leading
dotnet developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
about the solid principles of
object oriented design with Robert C. Martin.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman,
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And we're
sitting down today with uncle
Bob, Robert C. Martin, the founder CEO,
and president of object mentor
incorporated, but known colloquially to
the software community as uncle
Bob. Thank you, sir, for,
for chatting with me today.
It's my pleasure. One of
the things that, that I'm
hearing talk about a lot
in the, in the community
that I kind of run
in the.net community, is this
the solid principles, these principles
that you kind of outlined
in, in, in your discussion
of the principles of object
oriented design, and it's an
acronym of acronyms that listed
out five kind of basic
principles that add up to
solid. And when someone who's
maybe not a, a, a
software development want sits down
and looks at these things,
it's like patterns and more
patterns and principles. And it's
just, it's very kind of,
it could be looked at
as a little academic and
I could see where some
people's eyes would blur when
reading this kind of stuff.
So how do we make
this more accessible? How do
you demystify the solid, the
solid principles? Yeah, I confess
that the names of the
principals were something of a
conceit. I, I had spent
a lot of time studying
physics and astronomy. And in
those disciplines, you find principles
like the Heisenberg uncertainty principle
or the Pauli exclusion principle.
And so I rather like
the idea of three words
with the last word being
principle that was spurred on
even more by a book
that was written in 1992
by James Copeland, affectionately known as
COVID who, who coined the
word, the list, Goff substitution
principle, which is the third
in the solid list. So
to demystify them, let's take
the first one, the, the
single responsibility principle. It's a
nice word. It flows real
well. Single responsibility principle. What
does it mean? It means
that a software module should
have one reason to change.
And then that's what I
call a responsibility, a reason
to change. So for example,
take a, a payroll application.
If, Hey, if there's an
employee class in that payroll
application, you could imagine that
it might have methods for
calculate pay or perhaps another
method for print a report,
perhaps another method in the
employee object for save me
to the database. And what's
unfortunate about these three methods
existing in the same class
is that they all have
three completely different reasons to
change the, the payroll will,
the calculate pay will change.
If the accountants decide on
a new way of calculating
pay, the report generator will
change. If the people who
consume the reports want the
format of the report to
change the, the save function
will change. If the DBH
decide that we need to
change the database schema, that
means that this one class
has three different reasons to
change. And there are probably
many other classes that depend
upon it. And so, as
it changes those depending classes
also suffer through change, they'll
be affected or impacted by
those changes. Single responsibility principle
simply says, find one reason
to change and take everything
else out of the class.
So the, you separate the
things that change for different
reasons. You group together, the
things that change for the
same reasons. This is somewhat
out of, out of the
norm for object oriented design,
early object oriented design principles
had us grouping together functions
that operated on the same
data structures so that the
methods of a class would
all manipulate the same variables
of that class. But if
those methods change for different
reasons, then they really belong
in separate classes. That's that
definitely flips things on his
head. Cause I remember when
I got into C plus
plus I was moving from
C and we were already
trying to write what we
called, object oriented C you
know, having an associated group
of static methods act on
a structure that was in
C structure and we lied
to ourselves instead. It was,
Oh, and then moving that
to C plus plus we
would take, you know, book
objects and people objects, and
then give them all sorts
of bits of functionality. This
almost inverts that whole, that
whole concept. Well, it does.
In fact, it drives it
somewhat closer to the, the
thing that you were kidding
yourself about because in C
you could take a list
of a data structure and
a dot H file. And
then you could take a
list functions that manipulated it
and put that in the
one that C file, but
you can take another list
of functions. That's still manipulated
it and put it on
another Dotsie file, separate them
so that you could in,
in that case have functions
that did reports, functions that
did database manipulation functions that
did calculations manipulating the same
data structure, but in completely
separate Datto files. And that
would allow you to separate
them into different DLLs nowadays,
which probably couldn't do back
then and, and deploy them
independently, which is one of
the main goals here. Now,
one of the things that
I was taught in school
was that naming your objects
was very, very important. And
my particular instructor just pounded
that into my head, that
if you can't name it
and feel good about the
name and feel that the
name says what it is,
then you need a better
name. It seems like the
single responsibility principle would cause
an explosion of classes. And
I would suddenly be faced
with difficult naming decisions. Like
what exactly is this now
that now that it's not
the object that I expected
it was going to be.
Yes. And in fact the
exact opposite is true because
the more smaller objects you
have, the more focused they
are more easy, the easier
it is to think of
a name for them. We
get into naming dilemmas when
we have an object that
does so much, that it's
impossible to name it except
to given some broad brush
name, like employee manager. But
if you separate out a
bunch of very small objects,
it's very simple to come
up with names, if they're
focused. So you could have
the, the employee report generator
and the employee database savor
and the employee payroll calculator,
and those names are very
specific to what those classes.
So the, if we're grouping
things based on their reason
to change, which isn't quite
data, and it isn't quite
methods, it's more, it's more
their domain. It's more of
the space that they work
within. What are the names
that, I mean, traditional object
joints designed kind of the
way that I was taught,
pushes us into these manager
objects, master object, service objects,
these generic terms. That that
mean I know too much.
What kinds of names of
objects am I going to
end up with when I'm
replying the single responsibility principle
appropriately? Well, you'll, you'll wind
up with longer names generally,
but very focused. So you'll
create a class and that
class will do one thing.
For example, the class that
saves the employee to the
database, you might call this
the employee gateway using Martin
Fowler's gateway pattern, or you
might call it the, the
employee DB bad name, but
some people like to put
DB at the end of
their database controllers, whatever convention
you use, it becomes clear
that this class relates employees
to the database and does
not do calculations and does
not do reports generation. If
you had a, a class
that put an employee record
up on the screen, perhaps
an HTML, you might call
this the employee HTML renderer
or something like that. Very
precise names for many small
classes, as opposed to a
very generic names for a
few large classes. And by
the way, this, this practice
goes right down to the
function level as well. We
want to have lots of
little functions, not, not few
big functions and by little,
I mean, you know, five,
six, seven lines, long functions
should be, should follow the
same rule as the single
responsibility principle. And that applies
to methods to what you're
saying. So a class should
have only one reason and
a method should have only
one reason to change. Exactly.
Yeah. A method should be
extremely focused. If it's got
an if statement in it,
it probably shouldn't have two
or three. If it's got
a wild loop in it,
it probably shouldn't have two
or three and very, very
small focused methods. And what
you get with that is
it becomes very easy to
name them because you can
choose very long names because
they're only called once. And
those names can be extremely,
extremely informative. And then you
wind up with lots of
little bits of code underneath
well-named functions. I call this
cleaning up the room. I
remember when you were a
teenager or younger, your filing
system in your room was
to dump everything on the
floor. And you knew where
everything was and it was
fine. And then your clothes
would be on the floor
and your toys and your
books and whatever they'd be
on the floor. You knew
where it all was, but
your mother would come in
and say, no, you've got
to clean up this room.
She would clean it for
you. And she would touch
you, put things in certain
places, know where they go.
And maybe if she was
in the old school, she
recited that old, old saw
a place for everything and
everything. And it's a place
that's the same kind of
thing we get with the
single responsibility principle. We divide
things up into small little
bits. We name the places
that they go with extremely
informative names so that our
code, our entire system follows
the rule, a place for
everything and everything in its
place. Well, how, how long
is this going to, if
I go and apply this
today and start thinking about
this, how draconian should I
be about, about these kinds
of things? How ruthless should
I be when I make
these decisions? I think it
would apply a very different
feel. It would make my,
it would make my programming
day feel different for lack
of a better way to
phrase that, Oh yes, it
probably would make your programming
day feel different because what
you're doing is imposing a
great deal of structure on
something that otherwise would have
been somewhat a morphous. Imagine
a function that is 50
lines long, and the left
edge looks like the side
of a cross cut thoughts,
deeply indented. And it goes
in and out and finding
your way around in there
is fairly difficult. And then
remove chunks of that. Split
it up into 10 functions,
five lines long. Each one
has one level of indent
and name each one of
them. And you wind up
with a structure that is
readable and understandable, and you
don't have to dig your
way deep inside to the
sixth or seventh in depth
to figure out what's going
on. You can read the
name of the function above
it and say, Oh, that's
what's happening here. That's a
much more powerful way of
working. Some people get afraid
that well, that's going to
proliferate all the functions like
crazy. I'm going to have
too many functions in too
many classes, and I'm going
to get lost in a
sea of classes and functions.
And actually the opposite is
true. If you don't do
this, you are already lost
in a sea of heavily
indented code that has no
names in those structures. Once
you put the name and
the structure upon it, it
becomes a lot easier to
find your way around. Okay.
All right. So that's the
S and solid then. So
then the, Yeah, we got
through one. I got through
one, but this is good
though, because this is, this
is important because I think
that this is the closest
thing to commandments. And I
don't mean commandments in the
sense that, you know, uncle
Bob and family went up
on high and came down
with this information, but this
is a guiding principles that
are good, basic stuff that
aren't really arguable. I mean,
you know, thou shalt not
steal is pretty unambiguous and
you could always find reasons
to there's always exceptions, right.
You know, I'm sure that
there are reasons to make
an multiple sport, multiple responsibility
class, but then you can
certainly debate that until the
cows come home. Sure. You
can think of these as
engineering principles as opposed to
Yeah, exactly. So the O
open-close principle, Yes. This is
a principle that was coined
in 1988. I believe by
Bertrand Meyer and in a
wonderful book of object oriented
software construction, which was one
of the early terrific books
on object oriented design. This
principle States, what sounds like
an oxymoron sounds like a
contradiction in terms, it says
that modules should be open
for extension, but closed for
modification. And that means that
you should be able to
change what a module does.
You should be able to
extend its behavior without modifying
any code in the module,
whatever. Imagine that you have
a module and you've set
the read bit. You're not
allowed to change it. And
yet you can still modify
what this module does by
using some other mechanism. And
that's what the OB open-close
principles is all about. Obviously
the mechanism we use as
polymorphism, we create abstract interfaces
so that we can have
the module that we want
closed calling and abstract interface.
And then we can extend
what that module does by
creating derivatives of the abstract
interface. The benefit here is
that it allows us to
create systems whose behavior can
be extended without modifying the
core of the code. We
can add new features by
adding new code, not by
changing old existing code. And
that has obvious benefits. If
you could, if you could
add a whole new suite
of features and never touched
the core of the code,
just add new code, you
would not break the core
of them. The core of
the code. You wouldn't be
putting it in any kind
of risk. So the open-close
principle is a principle of
attitude. We want you to
think about how you can
separate the behaviors of the
system so that you can
keep those behaviors that are
utterly intrinsic behind a wall
that, that can't be touched.
And then all of the
behaviors that are variable and
transient and change a lot,
you put on the other
side of the wall and
you allow them to change
as frequently as you want.
And you make sure that
all of the dependencies that
cross that boundary point inwards
towards the code, that can't
be changed. The beauty of
the inheritance relationship is that
a point that the base
class and the base class
changes less frequently than the
derivative. And so we try
to apply that with object
oriented techniques, using the open-close
principle to create this two
sided structure. On one side,
you have all the base
classes where nothing changes. And
on the right side, you
have all the derivatives where
things are very, very volatile
and all the dependencies point
towards the base class. Hi,
this is Scott coming at
you from another place in
time. Are you looking for
an object, relational mapping tool
for mission critical projects using
lincoln.net? I wanted to share
with you genome. So specifically
designed for developing dot and
enterprise applications. Genome is a
mature link, integrated ORM tool.
It's been employed in numerous
large scale projects over the
last six years, genome was
created for the.net platform as
opposed to being a port
from Java. And it's thrived
on platform innovation since.net. 1.0
genome has supported links since
its CTP release in may
of 2006. It offers several
unique features, such as encapsulation
and reuse of link queries
and expressions. You can really
fully harness the power of
link while benefiting from your
database platforms. Unique features, compose
complex LINQ queries decompose the
query logic and your domain
model link supports all the
major database platforms you find
in enterprise environments like SQL
server, but also Oracle and
IBM DB too. And find
out more about how genome
integrates tightly with visual studio
and what tools do you
know them offers to reduce
development time@tinyurl.com slash try genome
G E N O M
E, where you can also
download a free and fully
functional trial version. I hope
you enjoy it. Now. These
principles don't dictate language, but
they do kind of there's
an, I mean, it feels
like traditional object oriented languages.
Do we use traditional? I
mean, is this a polymorphism
principle or can we do
strategy patterns and have different,
you know, pluggable interfaces to
achieve the open-close principles? Does
this dictate Mark your methods
virtual? You can, you can
do this with a standard
virtual methods in C sharp
or in Java or C
plus plus, or if you
wanted to, you could use
pointers to functions in C
or you could use cleverly
crafted switch statements in
or in other languages. There
are many, many ways to
achieve this, even the, the
template language of C plus
plus, and to a lesser
extent, Java give you some
capabilities for doing this. The
basic ideas is very simple.
Keep the things that, that,
that change frequently away from
the things that don't change,
and then make sure that
if they depend on each
other, the things that change
frequently depend on the things
that don't change frequently, that's
really the open-close principle. And
you can do that with
polymorphism. You can do it
with textual substitution, the whole
bunch of ways to do
that. The open-close principle kind
of segues very neatly into
the, the, the crazily named
or the interestingly named Liz
cough, substitution principle. That's the
one that you make, you
sound extra smart if you
throw it around the office.
Yes, that was the one
I liked because it sounded
so much like the Pauli
exclusion principle. Yeah. You can't
help, but sound, sound intelligent
saying these things around the
water cooler, This golf substitution
principle. Yes. Yeah. Very erudite
Now does this one. This
seems to be a little
closer to this principle. It
seems to expect virtual, you
know, virtual methods to work
a certain way. It seems
to expect a language to
work a certain way more
than the other, the previous
two principles we've covered so
far. It, it certainly has
a very strong connection to
inheritance and virtual functions. Although
it, it applies in languages
like Ruby or Python, which
don't have a traditional inheritance
of that nature. The idea,
the idea behind this principle
is it's pretty simple. Although
the implications are very far
reaching. If you have a,
an expectation of some object
or some entity, and there
are several possible sub entities,
we'll call them subtypes that
could implement that original entity.
The car color of the
original entities should not be
surprised by anything that happens.
If, if one of the
sub entities is substituted. So
simple way to think about
this is that if you're
used to driving a Chevrolet,
you shouldn't be too surprised
at when you get into
a Volkswagen, she'd still be
able to drive. That's the
basic idea. There's an interface.
You can use that interface.
Lots of things implement that
interface one way or another,
and none of them should
surprise you. Now, the, the,
the canonical example is the,
the rectangle square problem. And
this is a huge philosophical
debate that goes on all
the time in circles, or
at least it used to,
I think it's pretty well
resolved now, but given a,
a rectangle based class and
given a, the need for
a square should the square
class derive from the rectangle
and the at first blush,
this seems like it's obvious,
of course the square should
derive from the rectangle. A
square is a rectangle and
the word is becomes a
square is a rectangle. Well,
then you face some interesting
dilemmas. Once you create that
relationship, then, then you start
to ask yourself some funny
questions, like, well, wait a
minute. How many variables does
a rectangle have? Well, that's
two height and width. How
many variables does this? Square
need only needs one? Or
how many needs are going
to inherit the wind here
at two? Well, there's something
wrong there. It's getting too
many variables from the base
class. There's a dilemma here.
And it sounds right. Rip
square should derive from rectangle.
But if it does, it's
going to be wasteful of
memory, not memory is cheap.
So maybe we ignore that.
Okay. There are methods inside
of rectangle methods like set
height and width. And when
we derive square from rectangle,
we're going to inherit those
methods. What does that height
on a square? And how
is it different from the
other method that's inherited by
square, which is width. There's
a naming problem. And the
user of square is going
to be faced with these
names that heightened set width.
They don't make any sense
on a square. Now we
can make them work by
causing the, a set height
function to also set the
width and the cause the
set width function to also
set the height, but the
names are still messed up.
There's something wrong. And then
we forced failure. There is
a failure mode that can
occur here. And the failure
mode is very simple. You've
got some guy up there.
Who's some class who uses
rectangles and the programmer of
this class has made an
assumption. When you change the
height of a rectangle, the
width never changes perfectly reasonable
assumption if you're dealing with
a rectangle. But now, because
I have derived square from
rectangle, I can pass him
a square. He's going to
call set width and height
is going to change out
from underneath him. And because
he didn't expect that he'll
have some, if statement that
blows up, he'll corrupt, the
heap and a billion instructions
later, the whole system will
crash and he'll get his
logic analyzers out and there'll
be bugs this thing for
two weeks. And eventually you'll
find out that, Oh my
God, somebody passed me a
square. And I was expecting
a rectangle as the result
of that. He will put
an if statement in his
code and the statement will
read if this rectangle is
really an instance of square.
And as he's done that
he has hung a dependency
on the derivative of rectangle.
He is, he has mentioned
the name of square and
that, that, that dependency violates
the open-close principle. So you
wind up with if statements
scattered around your code because
of these, these violations of
the, the substitution principle that
you couldn't even see it
first. And those, this statements
hang dependencies on nasty, nasty
derivatives, that then violate the
open-close primp principle makes it
very difficult for you to
modify a square without changing
all of these things that
now depend on rectangle. That
makes sense. But let me
push, what would you do?
I mean, this is a,
you know, pick a side
With the square rectangle problem.
Yeah. They're not related at
all squares and rectangles aren't
related in, in the code,
a square in geometry is
related to a rectangle in
geometry, but these two pieces
of code are not pieces
of geometry. They're just COVID
they have completely separate behavior.
So I wouldn't have any
relationship between them at all,
or at most perhaps they
would have a common parent,
which might be shaped. Yeah.
Yeah. That's interesting. In the,
when you, when, when you
first said is the course,
the, the object oriented light
went on, but then later
on you said is related.
Hm. Yeah, I think it's,
it's comforting sometimes to try
to make, as, as we,
as programmers, try to make
order out of chaos to
go and say, Oh, a
cat is a mammal is
an animal. This is a
nice clean hierarchy. Let's go
and start naming things. And
we try to simulate these
hierarchies. When, you know, maybe,
maybe a cat is different,
you know, suspend disbelief. It's
not a mammal. It's something
else. The word is crypt
into our vocabulary. And by
the way, that's one word
ISA it's crept into our
vocabulary through a circuitous route
and became very important in
object oriented circles. But it
didn't start out that way.
It crept in and the,
the eighties through the AI
crowd who had created these
wonderful knowledge nets, you might
remember this all the hype
about artificial intelligence in the
late eighties, early nineties. And
they had created these structures
that would walk knowledge nets,
these inference engines and the
relationships between the entities and
the knowledge nets were things
like, like tastes like smells,
like, looks like a, is
all of these dash a
relationships is a, like a
HAZOP. And when the AI
crowd lost its funding and
all this funding dried up,
they kind of looked over
and said, Oh, there's this
stuff it's kind of cool.
And look, there's these relationships
like has done is others
real similar. We ought to
just move in and they
kind of did. And the
vocabulary transitioned over. That's interesting.
It's also a little unfortunate
because inheritance is not a
in inheritance. If you look
at it with a very
jaded eye inheritance is the
declaration of methods and variables
in the sub scope. And
it has nothing to do
with is a whatever. And
the, the notion of is
that can be very confounding.
A simple example, an integer
is a real number and
a real number is a
complex number. You could draw
that in UML, it'd be
very simple with all the
inheritance Ceros and so forth,
but think about trying to
compile it an integer, we
would hope would be 16
or maybe 64 bits. But
if it were to derive
from a real number, a
real number has two integers
in it, a man Tessa,
and a characteristic, the exponent,
and they use the, they
imply binary points inside them
to make the floating point
number, the floating point number,
the real number derives from
complex, but a complex has
two real numbers in it.
The imaginary and the real
park. If you were to
think about writing that in,
in C plus plus, or
in Java you'd you would
write a structure that could
not be compiled cause it
has infinite size makes perfect
sense in English makes no
sense at all in software,
Which it seems to be
most of the things that
I work on, that it
all seems so clean. And
then you start trying to
model it. It makes me
think about those, these, these,
these new modeling languages that
people are coming out with
to, you know, model everything
we try to teach, you
know, what do you, what
do you think about those
grand designs to T to
model? All we need is
a new modeling language, and
then it will be okay
With it's. We've always been
on the hunt for a
new modeling language. We always
will be. And that's a
fine thing. I think, you
know, we want to continue
to hunt for the grand
unifying language. There is no
such thing, obviously. Yeah. There's,
you've heard the MDA people,
the model driven architecture folks.
I think this is a
great effort. I wish them
a lot of luck. I
have no confidence whatsoever that
they're going to find a
way to create a modeling
language that is so good
that you won't need programmers
anymore. Programming is the, is
the, the profession of managing
the tail detailing information systems.
And there's no way to
get rid of all that.
Any, any modeling language is
going to have to be
able to deal with nasty
with the lousy detail and
its programmers who drive the
language to do that kind
of mastery. So if it's,
you know, a language that
uses UML or a language,
it uses some other wonderful
graphic tool or, or a
language of some other kind
it's still going to be
dominated by massive amounts of
detail and require programmers to
manage it. Yup. Yup. And
at some point someone will
do a switch statement and
then they'll spackle over it
and pretend it didn't happen.
And then it's becomes legacy
code. Well, yeah, like have
you read feather's book on
legacy codes? I, I have,
and actually Carl Franklin had him
on dotnet rocks, I think
at or dev. Oh good.
Yeah. Fedora dev at Michael's
Michael's definition of legacy code
is code. That's not under
test board. It's already legacy
code. Yeah. It's interesting going
back and finding code that
I wrote not 10 years
ago, which had no tests,
but five years ago, which
did have, you know, piles
of in unit tests. The
only thing that I feel
when I see my old
legacy code is well not
legacy code, but my older
code is, gosh, I should
have written more tests. That's
the one thing I keep
coming back to it like,
Oh wow, there's tests. That's
great test dot bat. Oh,
there's not enough tests that
I continually have that feeling.
This is something that the
community owes a great debt
to Beck and ward Cunningham
for the whole whole notion
of test driven development and
the drive towards a massive
amounts of unit testing and
acceptance testing. And it makes
a huge difference. Just an
enormous difference in the quality
of code and the ability
to get into code and
manipulate it and change it.
When you have tests, you're
not afraid if you've got
a big wad of code
out there, there's no test,
you're scared to death to
touch it. So, you know,
you're going to break things
in there, but if you
have tests, you can reach
into it and fiddle with
it and pull on it
and push at it and
tweak it, run the test
down there. I'll still pass.
I didn't break anything. Right.
As long as those tests
have enough coverage, You know,
there was an interesting discussion
I got into with some
people about dynamic languages versus
statically typed languages. And the
individual said that the compiler
was just a unit test,
but once you, once you
accepted the fact that the
competitor was just a unit
test and the whole argument
of dynamically type versus static
type didn't matter anymore, The,
the argument of static versus
dynamic is an interesting one
because the static typing creates
a set of very rigid
dependencies that tends to make
the codes inflexible. But then
it's, it's really hard to
segregate your code into a
nice set of flexible module.
Whereas with dynamic languages, it's
really easy to keep the
code as flexible as you
want. And it's also really
easy to make a horrid
mess. So you wind up
with this double edge sword,
which one would you like,
would you like to be
a, you know, highly disciplined
and ordered, but you have
to live within a rigid
framework or do you want
to be a little bit
lackadaisical and you know, and
do some nice, flexible things.
And I, my, my preference
of late is towards the
dynamic language. I've gotten very
pleased with languages like Ruby.
I enjoy them a great
deal. I maintain my discipline
by writing gobs and gobs
of tests. Although I probably
still write much more Java
than Ruby. Well, let's pound
through the last two principles
here. As we get towards
the end of the show
here, we've still got to
talk about dependency and version
and interface segregation. If we
do it in order on
your article, it's Sol DEI,
we spell out solid though.
Why is that? Why is
it not spelled out? So
you don't actually never say
solid in your article? No,
the, the word solid actually
came up later. Michael feathers
wrote me a quick email
saying, you know, if you
reorder these, it's spelled the
word solid Salty, didn't get,
didn't quite roll off the
tongue. No, but I wasn't
looking for an acronym. He
just found it for me.
And then we've since found
some pictures. So if we
do it in order, the,
the, if we do it
in the original order, then
the next one is the
dependency and version principle. And
this is a, almost a
restatement of the open-close principle,
except from a 90 degree
rotation, the open-close principle States
the goal, you know, it
makes things so that you
don't have to modify them
and you can extend their
behavior. The dependency inversion principle
says don't depend on anything.
Concrete depend only on things
that are abstract. If you
think about that, those two
are roughly the same. The
open-close principle is achieved by
having derivatives depending on base
classes and making sure that
all of your volatile code
is in the derivatives and
your, your nonviolence code is
in the base classes. Dependency,
inversion principle just says that
the opposite way around it
says, okay, make sure that
all your dependencies pointed things
that are abstract. The dependency
inversion principle goes to a
pretty far extreme. It goes
on to say, don't depend
on anything concrete ever. If
you're calling a function, it
should be an abstract function,
a pure function. If you're
overriding a function, make sure
it's pure. If you're, if
you're a CRE calling an,
an object or you're holding
a reference to an object,
make sure it's a reference
to an abstract base class
of the object. Never touch
anything concrete. Obviously you can't,
you can't do that. Yeah.
I mean, that's pretty, like
I say, I keep saying
draconian, but I mean, sometimes
people take the solid principles
and they wield them with
like a stick. Well, yeah.
Then that'd be silly. You
have to do it again.
They're engineering principles, Right? I
mean, it's, it's, it's an
interesting thing that, I mean,
you work with, with groups
and you go in and
consult with groups, but you
know, when you're a member
of one of these groups
and someone comes in and
drop some principles on you
that maybe you're unfamiliar with,
and then, and then leaves
the people who drank the
deepest of the Koolaid, then
you start to have, have
these principles. You know, they
basically, they out they'll shut,
not kill. I now remember
the commandments at every, at
every turn at how much,
you know, how many grains
of salt should we use
when we're applying these, these
principles? How important are these?
Are they, is one more
important than another? Or are
they all equally? No, I
think they're all very important.
Although if I had to
pick one to, if I
had to pick an order,
I'd probably say single responsibility
dependency in version open-close lists
off interface. That was, that
was completely off the top.
But dependency in version, it's
very mechanistic. It says, make
sure you depend only in
the direction of, of abstraction.
There are certain parts of
the code that must violate
that. But then I have
a rule about those certain
parts that must violate it.
They belong on the, on
the right side. So remember
we had this, when we
talked about the open-close principle,
we had these two sides
of the volatile side and
the, the non-volatile side and
the, the, the things that
violate the dependency in version
sensible, all belong on the
volatile side, the things that
change frequently, anything that we
don't want to change, anything
that's part of the core
abstraction of our system. We
furiously defends the dependency and
version principle. I, I call
the other side, the side
related to main the volatile
part. That's the side related
to Maine. Maine is the
most concrete of our functions.
And it will, it will
create all of our instances
and all of the factories
and all of the concrete
classes for us. And it
will then hand off to
the, to the abstract part,
a set of abstract pointers,
abstract and interfaces. And the
abstract core will manipulate it
as though it were in
this fantasy world where everything
was abstracting, that boundary line
that I draw between the
volatile and the non-volatile actually
repeats itself several times in
every system. So you'll find
lots of those boundary lines
all through. And on the
one side, you've got flagrant
violations of dependency inversion version,
because somebody's got to create
these objects. And then on
the other side, you've got,
you know, really strong defense
of the dependency version principles.
Yeah. I mean, at some
point you have to draw
the line. I mean, the,
the frame, the framework itself
that does the new thing
has to break some principles.
And so we make sure
that those go on into
a certain place. You don't
do things in the normal
part of the code. You
call new inside of factories
or inside of prototype methods
or somewhere that's related to
the volatile part of the
system. We don't want to
see any news in the
nonbillable part of the system.
That's a good, that's a
very good way to phrase
it. That that makes a
lot of sense. So then
the, your self decide, describe
least important or least important
amongst peers here, the interface
segregation principle. Yes, this is
eight applies to a very
fat classes, classes that have
hundreds of methods and many,
many clients. And you get
into a situation where you'll
have populations of the clients
that use subsets of the
methods of this class. So
to make this simple, let's
say you've got a big
class, call it fat, and
it's got a bunch of
methods in it. And there's
a group of clients over
here that calls the first
three methods and another group
of clients that were here,
the calls last three method.
Now imagine that one in
one of the first three
methods changes its signature. For
some reason, we've got to
add an argument to it.
The population of clients that
does not care about that
method is still forced to
be to change because the
class itself changed. This was
really important in C plus
plus where a pound include
was involved in the pound
include cause they recompile of,
of everybody that, that depended
on it. It's also important
in Java and C sharp,
although not quite as important.
Some people play a funny
game where they, they change
the signature of a method.
And then the other files
that don't care about it,
they just don't bother to
recompile them. We found everybody
in the Benton fit the
mountain back in general. You
want to be able to,
if a source file changes,
you have to recompile everybody
who depends on that source
file. Even if nothing, they
really cared about changed. Now,
the way we can avoid
that from happening is by
taking each of the, each
of the clients and creating
an interface that contains only
methods that they care about.
And if we had a,
if we had 10 clients,
then we'd create 10 interfaces
and each of those interface
would have a different set
of methods in it. And
all the methods in there
would be abstract. And then
the fat class would inherit
from all 10 of the
interfaces. And if there were
duplications in the methods, they
would just be grouped together.
But through that interface, and
once you've done that, then
Nope, no class depends on
any more methods than it
ever needs. It simply depends
only on the methods that
it needs. And if a
change happens, it changes to
the interface. The clients of
that interface obviously has to
be recompiled, but nobody else
does. And so all the
other clients are safe. There's
an, there's an elegant pragmatism
to that. I don't usually
think of being for some
reason. I always feel like
when I say pragmatic, when
I'm doing something, I say,
Oh, I have to make
a pragmatic decision. I always
feel like that's a difficult
decision or the wrong decision.
And I just apply the
word pragmatic to make myself
feel better about it, but
for something to be both
elegant and pragmatic feels really,
really good. That makes it,
that makes a lot of
sense. Well, in general, you
don't want to depend on
something you don't use. And
here you got a class
of a whole bunch of
methods in it and you
don't call them any dependency
on them. You're depending on
this method. So The, the
number of interfaces, the sheer
number of interfaces, the specialization
applying the single responsibility principle,
just not just to classes,
but also to, to methods
and to interfaces will definitely
cause a, a relative proliferation
of, of, of new things
within, you know, new, new,
new interfaces, new methods, new
classes. But like you said,
they'll each be very specialized
and basic and simple. There'll
be more of them, but
they will be specialized. That's
certainly true. Especially in languages
like C sharp and Java
and C plus plus, right?
Think of language like Ruby
in language like Ruby, you
never depend on anything more
than the method you're calling
the methods declared in a
class are not part of
what you depend upon when
you, when you send a
message to an object. In
fact, when you send a
message to an object, you
don't know what class it
is. And so dynamic languages
automatically obey the interface, segregation
principle, and obey it in
the most extreme way possible.
There is no way for
them to depend on any
more than the methods that
they actually call. Well, that
is an excellent way to
end. Our discussion of the,
the solid principles are demystification
uncle Bob. I really appreciate
you taking as much time
as you did to sit
down and chat with me
about these principles. And folks
can, can learn about them
at a, at object mentor.com
and you can poke around
on the site there, there's
also blog dot object, mentor.com.
And if you go up
there, you can see that
uncle Bob, as well as
his cohorts, Dean, Brett, Michael
and Bob are all on
Twitter. So you can drink
in as much of the,
the wit and wisdom of
uncle Bob, as you could
possibly take in one sitting.
Well, you know, thanks so
much for your, for your,
your work in the last
many, many years, you've been
in the business so long,
and we look to you
and your cohorts with a
lot of respect, and we
really appreciate everything that you
offer to the community. Well,
thank you. I appreciate that.
And it's just been a
lot of fun. So we'll
do it again. Well, this
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.